Description of activity: An international marketing, management, entrepreneur organization that develops emerging leaders and provides real-world experiences for students in the areas of marketing, finance, hospitality and management in high schools and colleges around the globe.

Length of season: School year (September-May).  Depending on how far each student makes it in competition.

Meeting times: Membership meetings are typically once a month on Wednesday evenings or Thursday mornings (We try to accommodate religious holidays). We also have additional meetings as needed before competitions.

Meeting sites: Forum Rooms (2nd or 4th floor), A143, A148 or Culinary Express.  All meeting dates are on the calendar below.

Competitions: District - January (Wayzata High School), State - March (Minneapolis), and Internationals - April (locations vary).  All competition dates are on the calendar below.

Eligibility requirements: Enrollment in a business department class for the year of participation. Meet the Wayzata Public Schools Extra-Curricular Eligibility Requirements.

Average number of members: 180

Costs and/or needed equipment: Participation fee of $175 ($55 School fee, $35 DECA fee, $85 district fee) to cover WHS participation fee, state and national dues, prep materials, t-shirt and fees to participate at the district competition. Additional fees will be collected to attend FLC (Fall Leadership - Optional for first year members), CRLC (Central Region Leadership Conference - If we attend), SCDC (State competition), and ICDC (International competition) conferences.

Student leadership: Officer team selected by current members and advisors.

Lettering Criteria: Wayzata DECA members can letter in DECA by

Completing all volunteering requirements by District competition
Competing at the District competition and being called to stage as a State Qualifier
Obtaining a 80 or higher on the District competition test
or

Be an International Qualifier.
Sashes: Wayzata DECA members that demonstrate leadership, dedication and perseverance will earn DECA sashes for  after graduation. Sashes will be rewarded for members that accomplish one of the following: 4-year competing member, ICDC competitor, Wayzata DECA Officer.

Additional Information: DECA develops emerging leaders and entrepreneurs for careers in marketing, finance, hospitality and management in high schools and colleges around the globe. Local chapters are affiliated with state and national organizations. Wayzata DECA helps students develop their presentation, analysis and soft skills to better prepare them for the real world.